and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm excited to be joined by
martin
mcarthur today martin is the ceo
outbound
sales guy at a young age he was
diagnosed with a disease called juvenile
retinitis
pigment causing him to eventually go
totally blind martin a very warm welcome
to the show sir
how's it going it's it's going well i
just need to correct you sorry sam it
it's retinitis pigmentosa
ah thank you yeah no no words i
appreciate that intro and uh yes i'm
really excited to uh be here be a part
of the the show
and um looking forward to
a great conversation yes sir
looking forward to it martin so thanks
for joining us and we're going to be
chatting through
all about the challenges that early
stage business owners face
and perhaps even more important how they
can
generate those all important customers
clients
and start revenue flowing in as as we
know cash is king especially in a new
business
to help their business grow so martin
appreciate that you've recently gone out
on your own
and so perhaps that would be a good
starting point and perhaps you could
tell us a bit more about kind of how you
started your business and
and the type of challenges that when it
comes to building your own company
that you faced that business owners face
and how we can overcome those
yeah that's a great thing because i
think um
especially right in the last
year with the the current climate
um a lot of a lot of folks have
uh for whatever reason have started to
their their own business right whether
that's because they got let go got laid
off
i just decided hey this is time for me
to take charge
and be in in charge of my own destiny
whatever
um they think okay i'm going to be an
entrepreneur i'm going to be ceo
and i'm going to have instant success
luck with that because
uh based on um you know
you might think uh looking at linkedin
looking at instagram facebook all the
different
social platforms um
you may think that it's all all uh
roses and you're gonna be a millionaire
within six months
um i would
recommend that you se according
expectations because there will be a lot
of
challenges along the way um
and and those challenges they can change
day to day uh and and week to week month
to month right so
i started the outbound sales guy
outbound sales
agency back in august
uh kind of
what with my the personal brand that i
cultivated
on linkedin i had a couple people reach
out to me
and said hey you know you seem to know
what you're doing
we want you to do this for us
and i thought awesome you know this is
going to be great
perfect i've got revenue coming in this
is kind of how i think i want to
structure
things and i fell flat on my face
because i didn't have the right
processes in place i didn't have the
right
um the right idea maybe in
in place well enough i thought okay i
can just
go go and do what i've always done
other companies and be able to book
meetings
i didn't realize that hey you need to
set proper expectations with your
clients
you need to be clear on what the goals
are what the uh
objectives are of the campaign
and then there's a hell of a lot of work
that goes into
building a campaign from scratch that um
i don't think i i may be allotted for
and then um then there's expenses
that that come with starting a business
right um
you you need to
especially for outbound there's there's
different tools that you
you should have in place and those tools
cost money um you know it'd be nice to
as you and i were just speaking before
this going live here sam we're talking
about
you know lack of not having a website or
seo
or um you know any
any marketing components it'd be nice to
go out and say hey
i'm able to go and purchase those pieces
right now
but the revenue doesn't support that
so um you know
those are are i would say the initial
things that
yeah and that any business owner should
be
considering as they they go out on their
own yeah and i think you've laid down
some some great points there martin so
a lot of us especially if we're if we're
starting our own company don't
necessarily
consider all these things all these
unknown expenses
but not just the expenses like you're
laid out knowing that we have to have
certain processes
whether that's for how we market our
company how we acquire new customers
and and then how we actually deal with
customers
so in terms of the process from
onboarding them to account management
ongoing and all the other little hidden
bits and pieces that make up the jigsaw
that is running a company
and as you know it's it's a full-time
gig right martin
that's right because because you you may
have gone from
being in an sdr sales development rep
an account executive a vpsl like
whatever your
previous title was when you're
at a company you're now
everything you're the head of finance
head of
sales head of marketing head of account
um
head of operation like
the box stops with you so if there's a
failure or there's something going wrong
you've gotta be able to step back and
say
okay that that's that's where
something's going wrong
and um i i think
one thing i didn't also touch on in
terms of the the processes and the tools
is
um how like
how are you gonna get paid because
that's the other thing that
that was a bit of a
you know maybe being a little naive on
my part is
okay i i put up i went out and got a
invoicing platform but how do you
how to how do you use it
good point and then what should your
billing terms be
and and all how do you invoice like all
these different
aspects that yeah okay i'm gonna i'm
gonna start my business and then then
all these other things pop up and like
oh i didn't think of that or i didn't
realize
i needed that aspect so
on that note martin you're exactly right
and we've we had some of the same issues
here at webchoice so there's there's so
many different pieces of technology
and sometimes you can get overwhelmed
like you say when you think about i need
to have this piece of
piece of software for my accounting this
for my crm to manage my customers
and then i need this perhaps for ongoing
account management and then we've got
the emails and there's
it all adds up in both expense and also
your own time to manage all these tools
to learn them
so in your case martin when it came to
you starting your company in your case
running an outbound
sales development company were you
jumping in and
picking up as you went along or did you
have a like you mentioned earlier a
process where you saw
where you kind of laid down what you
needed to do and sought advice from
others or
what's kind of helped you that could be
useful for other people tuning in that
are thinking of going out on their own
all the above so i i
thought of okay what what in terms of
tools right what have i used it before
that i know and and i understand and
because my my situation is a little
unique anything that i invest in in
terms of technology
has to work well with my screen reader
otherwise it just creates
constant frustration throughout the day
so i had in my head okay i know that
these four
to six applications work well
and i know so i went out and the ones
that i knew were that
wouldn't cost anything i got those and
then i invested in the ones that
that ended up costing money so that took
care of the the infrastructure aspect of
fuel
and then i leaned on so my my dad
um he's owned and ran
and sold and bought businesses
all my life so i've leaned on his
expertise
and then a few of my friends are
a bit older than i am and and they own
their own businesses so i've leaned i i
leaned on their
expertise as well and asked them okay
what do you recommend like in in terms
of uh
the financing aspect right what are you
using for invoicing how does that work
what's a good billing cycle um
even though you know we're in different
verticals
in different industries but what
what is your recommendation so and then
in terms of the process
i picked i picked up
and incorporated pieces of processes
that i've used and been a part of
with different outbound agencies and
kind of
made up my own got it okay
so it's a case of talking to your
network talking to people you know
and also utilizing the tools that you've
used at previous companies
exactly yep and are there any other
um things that you think people that are
tuning in martin
should be aware of perhaps um maybe ones
that you stumbled over yourself
or maybe things that we've completely
forgotten about
um that are really crucial when it comes
to just doing day-to-day business
um i i think there's a you you
learn a lot as you go along um yeah
i think some of the great lessons are
come from failing it comes from
okay that didn't work
and this is why so now i can go forward
okay now i know for the next client
okay this is what i need in terms of of
this process and these expectations and
just make sure that
it's very clear and then also document
it
so that if you get to that point whether
it's
in a month three months six months 12
months whatever
and you go and make that initial higher
maybe you're looking at bringing on a
co-founder a
sales leader revenue leader ops leader
marketing whatever
you've got a process in place so that
you can say okay this is what i've been
doing so far and then they can
add in and help you evolve it throughout
right and that is gold that actually um
i
put a very similar post to that kind of
subject
but with a marketing spin this morning
so
um the the post i put out on linkedin
was basically
don't let your marketing go stale so you
can't keep doing the same old thing
and hope for the same results i can't do
one marketing channel be it paid ads on
google
be it seo be it linkedin whatever
channel you decide your podcast webinar
something else and keep doing it and
doing it and expecting
the results to increase and expecting
something to suddenly give you more
clients if it's on the decline
you've gotta not be afraid to try new
channels
give them a good go whether that's with
your own team whether that's investing
in another company
but likewise if they don't work and
you've given them a good go
document it learn from it don't do it
again
try something else just like you've laid
out perfectly there martin
yep exactly cool man good stuff so
moving this forward i think what would
be interesting to chat about now martin
is
whilst we've talked about cold calling
we've talked about ourselves a fair bit
on the show
um i'd like you to give your overview i
mean we talk about outbound we talk
about inbound marketing
and lead generation and sales quite a
lot but i'd love you to
kind of describe to our audience what
your view is on outbound selling
so my view on outbound selling is that
it's evolved from
being a strictly volume
activity high volume activity
process and
relying on one channel that's no longer
the case
so what i mean by that is
used to be okay we're only going to use
the phone we're only going to use
email we're only going to use door
knocking
or uh
direct mail pieces yeah
you have to now incorporate
multiple channels because
prospects are fickle so you you could i
i could reach out to you today sam and
you're you're huge on linkedin right so
you're probably going to respond best to
some some touch point on linkedin
whether that's a
voice message a video a direct message
a comment whatever you're more likely to
respond that way
whereas someone else they may not
want to do anything on linkedin they
much rather have a
a live conversation on the phone
sure and then your next prospect may say
like they may not even
respond to any of that they they may be
email people
or maybe they're tech they only want to
go by text message
or by uh
you know these micro communities that
have popped up maybe they only want to
talk to you in slack
like there so for
if you're only relying on um one channel
then you're going to um
you you're results are going to
suffer because you could be missing out
on a
huge opportunity
default the phone is still a powerful
channel
but what i like to try and do is uh
when we kick off a campaign whether it's
internally here for
for the outbound sales guy or if it's
for a client
we start with an initial touch point
in cadence of linkedin so
and the reason for that is we're trying
to warm up that phone call
so the second touch point is a phone
call
because hopefully by the time we get
to to that person on the phone
it's not a ice cold call they have no
idea who the heck we are
they at least have an idea oh hey the
outbound sales guy oh
yeah okay yeah you sent me an invite on
linkedin or
you you commented on something i had on
linkedin or something along those lines
so it's
it's transitioning from cold calling
to warm calling and then also
using outcomes so that you can can focus
in on the right prospect
at the right time instead of trying to
chase somebody that has
zero interest in you good stuff so a few
questions on my end martin
around this yeah um so
a lot of questions really
first firstly how do you determine which
channel to reach out to a prospect on
yeah so i i use
um i use multiple channels i use
linkedin i use
phone email video
in sms those are the channels i use
email i'm not i've never been a big fan
of email because
honestly i'm not a great writer um
[Music]
so for for me to try and send out a an
email to somebody
yeah and and
over the years the data just yeah it's
one of those things that people will
debate but
for me email's just never been been a
big
mover the the ones that have been really
good for me is linkedin phone
video and then lately sms
okay and on that note so you mentioned
that you're quite often running a
cadence martin
so for example you might connect with
someone on linkedin you might send them
a personalized message
and then you might drop them a call so
that way it's not an ice cold cool
it's something that's a little bit warm
because they already know who you are
because you've connected with them and
perhaps she had a message
beforehand correct is that something we
need to do with our cold calling so i
appreciate that can take
time and if we're perhaps not a business
owner we're maybe
a sales rep or working for a team or we
are time strapped
is that something that's going to take a
lot of our time is it actually
worthwhile doing those touch points and
putting in that work beforehand
it so so yes it's going to take
time and it's worthwhile because
you're you're establishing trust
credibility you're establishing a
relationship
with your prospect and
if you're able to do that then you're
you're starting to break down some of
those barriers that
that prospect has built up and slowly
breaking it
down and down down and in earning that
person's trust so
yes it's gonna take longer and that's
why we have to transition from
this volume approach of okay we gotta go
and get a hundred make a hundred dials
to get
you know maybe 10 10 leads and hopefully
10 out of those
one out of 10 of those leads is going to
convert to a meeting
well why not focus on for instance
10 qualified
prospects that that meet all of our
criteria
and start to establish trust credibility
and
build a relationship with that person so
that when they're ready to
purchase something we're the ones that
they consider
not someone else got it
and when when you say quality um quality
context i mean i kind of know what you
mean
but not everyone necessarily may or
might not quite have the right idea
either
so are you using an ideal customer
profile that you've nailed down
martin and then perhaps moving to a
certain process that you've got
to determine what is a quality contact
and who you need to target or
what's your process for that side of
things yes
so it's having a very ideal customer
profile
also once we get in front of that person
do they meet all of our requirements so
for
for instance the outbound sales guy are
they
an early stage company are they um
because primarily we're focusing on
computer software
i.t services so do they fall into
those categories are they in the process
of building a go-to-market strategy
are they um making a higher
for a new sales and revenue leader have
they just brought
somebody in um are they
receiving funding
are they struggling to book qualified
sales meetings do they have
only one rep but they need more
representatives like so so
there there's multiple factors that come
into play
and then also
um when we get in front of that prospect
asking them some questions just to
qualify them make sure that they're good
fit
because sure why you waste
your time and my time right so
just making sure that that individual is
indeed
you know we we can do all this research
and be like yeah this is a good fit and
then
end up having a conversation with that
person to find out uh no you're
completely wrong right so sure
just make sure that everything aligns
and then
um that individual in fact is a is a
good
quality prospect yeah so i mean to cover
what we've or recap rather what we've
discussed so far we're talking about
spending more
time actually ensuring that the people
we're
targeting fit the idle customer profile
we actually want to be doing
business with and then making sure when
we do connect with them
on whatever channel that may be whether
it's email call
phone sms video message whatever it may
be
we're actually we've got a set of
criteria we've got we're having a good
conversation with them through
whether they actually are a fit to do
business with us
and for us to do business with them
rather than just pushing really hard
to get that meeting booked or get that
appointment booked because it might not
necessarily go anywhere
and it's not really a good use of our
time exactly and that's why
i think there there's been
lately some resistance towards outbound
in
itself the sales development function
because
um there's been that whole
process of high volume high activity
targeting the wrong people yeah
yeah yeah no that's it it's it's it's
always a bit of a tricky one
i can see if i can see the point of it
if you are a sales development rep or
you are an appointment setting guy and
you've got
a sales manager breathing down your neck
and they're they're just giving you that
obviously the 100 or 150 dollars
whatever the quota is that you've got to
do
it's a tight balance but like you say
mine if you're going for the quality
then it's it's going to make sense that
the outcome is is going to be better at
least for the long run
so are there any areas or revenue or
avenues we've not yet discussed martin
that you found
really useful to actually be able to
source customers and to be able to
generate appointments
um or strategies
no yeah i think we i think we've hit on
them all really
um on all all the channels
i i would say won't they get the other
factor that comes into play
a bit is the messaging and this is an
area
that i've always been very honest with
myself and with people
um i'm i'm weak with it and i'm always
trying to
improve but if you can tailor your
messaging to that
to address that problem type centric
mindset of you know this is the problem
that
a lot of people have this is kind of how
we're
working to solve it and this is why
we're trying to solve it
um i think that's going to help as well
in increasing those conversations
and then ultimately resulting in more
meetings booked
great point yeah yeah really really
understand the actual problem you solve
and that's that's a really good point
and that's something like you say martin
that can be
really well utilized in not just
your calling not just your phone calls
be
outbound sales for trying to generate
appointments trying to generate sales or
leads but also your marketing material
so whether that's your website or the
ads and so on
and also a guy called josh braun who
came on the show
a long time ago now and he actually
rinsed me a fair bit
um some of the questions i was putting
out as he likes to do
but luckily i took a slice of humble
pride i don't take too much offense i
like to roll with it and
he's he's he knows what he's talking
about when it comes to sales so i was
listening with my my ears wide open so
um
anyway he did a post on linkedin a while
back and he
actually said in i think it was in eight
words or less describe the problem you
solve as as clearly as crispy as
possible
and it's got to be a big expensive
possible but it's got to be eight words
or less and it really made me think
because a lot of people were kind of
saying i helped companies do xyz but
then i was i was about to type myself i
helped companies
like generate more clients general
customers through their website through
seo
but then i realized that's not the
actual problem
that i do that's a solution that's a
resolution
and i was thinking what is the actual
problem i had to actually think
about conversations that i'd had with
customers on the phone of our email
and the problem they they brought to us
so in our case it's
usually they're not ranking high enough
on google so perhaps their competitors
are enjoying their leads so i really
really simplified it
or it's that they're frustrated their
website isn't turning visitors
into opportunities so the problem is
their website's failing to convert
visitors into opportunities
so when you think about it it's harder
than you originally think to identify
the problem
but the point i'm getting to is
the gold is in your conversations or in
thinking about
the previous customers that you've
helped um so i don't know if that's ever
struck a chord or happened to you martin
it it has and that
is something that i always try and and
work on but
um i always find that
like you said it it's challenging it it
is a
it's a challenge but if you can
articulate
that problem that you you help solve in
um i forget where i heard it but i heard
it a while ago
and it's been echoed by by other folks
like josh
and so on so on
make your messaging or
explain what you do so that a
eight fifth or eighth grader could
understand it right
so yeah when you think of the in that
context
yeah because a lot of your your
prospects
you you know and you know we can we can
um
i don't know you know do something
that's really technical right and you
get
deep into the least technically they're
like i don't know what the heck you're
talking about like what
what what so if you just go in and
explain it as though you were talking to
a fifth grader
um and just be really
really simple with your explanation
i think that's something a lot of people
could
use in incorporating their messaging
definitely i've been guilty of using
technical jargon in the past especially
on my conversations which is easily done
in the web and digital marketing space i
mean there's so much jargon that you
could use this it's tech related
but ultimately just like you've said
martin what's the point if the customer
on the other end of the phone or the
video or the email doesn't understand
what you're talking about
and you're not explaining something that
resonates with them so you're not
talking about the problem
that's relevant to them or how you fix
it and you're not putting it across
simply and clearly
just in your case like a fifth grader to
understand then you're probably losing
them
and you're probably not peaking their
interest exactly yep
exactly good stuff man look martin
really enjoyed the conversation today
and with that i want to thank you very
much for coming on sir but please do
share a bit more about how people can
learn from you how people can connect
with you
and the best way to get in touch with
your business
so the the best way right now is on
linkedin if you search
the outbound sales guy um you can find
me
that way i am in the process
of getting a website up and running
um hopefully that is going to be sooner
than
later although that date seems to keep
moving which i don't like but uh
that is the best way or you can email me
martin m-a-r-t-i-n
at the outboundsalesguy.com
and i'm always happy to have a
conversation good man
martin thanks very much all of that all
of those links all that information will
be available at the website
businessgrowth.marketing and thanks very
much martin really appreciate you coming
on dude
thanks sam really appreciated me cheers
man and if you enjoyed the show
be sure to hit subscribe to business
growth show wherever the heck you get
your podcast from
be apple spotify youtube well somewhere
else we interview business leaders each
and every week to provide actionable
tips
to boost your sales make best use of
marketing and ultimately
grow your business and we'll catch you
on the next episode cheers for tuning in